I would like to talk about
the partnership.
The partners’ pact is a word that comes
out very much and has a lot of
sense, but that the non-experts
seem to make it difficult for
us to understand all the depth it has.
First, explain what it is, what
it is for and why you recommend it.
The first thing to say about the
contract is that it is a contract.
People often confuse it with
a decision of the board.
No, it is a contract in which
we sit as partners of the
company, to which we will be
partners and we agree on how we
will organize ourselves, how
we will make decisions, who
will be the manager of the company.
There are a number of points that are
critical, they are very important in
the face of the company’s life and then
we regulate it in a document that
is outside of the examinations and
outside of the acts of the board
and committee and that kind of things.
So, the partners’ agreement is as
such, they will always bring us
the questions what is the moment
when my answer is always the
same and is that at the same time
you sign the constitution
writing of your company, when
you sit with your partner and look
him in the eyes for the first
time and say, this company
how will it be?
This is the time to make the pact.
There are uncomfortable questions, it’
s like when you marry someone.
There are things you need to know
about someone else, right?
There is one aspect that I like very much.
Yes, when you marry someone,
we have given you the example
once, that the partners’ pact has
to face it, but that sometimes
when you start a relationship
these things are not usually
done and separation
of property or profits.
It seems that if you don’
t talk about it then you end up
in trouble.
We want to have children, we don’t want to
have children.
We want to live in the city or in the
mountains.
Yes, that is exactly.
This concept of hidden agenda, which
are hidden agendas.
These are things you don’t hide from your
partners because you want to be a fucker.
The hidden agenda?
What is that?
Yes, it’s a concept that helped
me a lot to understand the partners’
pact and that’s what we
were saying.
These are things that you have in
your head, that you don’t share with
your partners, that can be
very relevant, but you’re not hiding them.
We are simply talking
about them.
It is not a matter of bad faith, it
is a matter of simply lack of
communication at the beginning.
Are they like your interests?
Yes, they are your interests.
For example, a company, what do
we want to do with this company?
Do we want to sell it or do we want
to stay in it for the rest of our lives?
Do you want to have 10 employees or a million?
Do we want to make an investment?
We do not want to make investments.
Is it a full time project or is it a
side project?
Sorry for the words in English, but
it’s that they’re used at the end
of the day when you put yourself
with your partners, sit down, measure
your face and say guys we’ll
decide what we’ll do with this.
And that eventually gives it a little
shape and ends up materializing into
a partnership.
No, because it is very possible
that the interests of the
different people who found
a company do not have to coincide.
One thing everyone wants is that.
There is no clause of a partnership
agreement to work for the company.
And the partnership helps that,
helps establish from the very beginning
and let people face what their
responsibilities will be.
Exactly, and especially who
will be able to appoint a board
member, for example,
or who will be solidary
or single or mancomunated
friendship or whatever.
We have defined it at a time and so
we don’t have to discuss it every time.
We have it from now on.
Who will go to the round?
There are many decisions that are
difficult or are a little that
can get you the colors at a certain
time, because it is better to
do everything off the road, regulate
it and from there then it is
all much easier.
Well, I think it is clear to us
in general what a partnership
is and what it serves to.
Basically what you need to take
into account is that in a relationship
of this type of business, which
is also often between people
who are friends initially and
still things like, sometimes even
couples, come up well or wrong,
many tensions arise in the
way and then on top of other
investors, other partners, etc.
The ideal and your recommendation
is from the first day to face
it, leave things in writing, that
everyone has clear what their
obligations are, what their
interests are, etc.
and perfect.